# winter-climb-predictor

This is a tool to predict whether an ice climb in scotland will be in climbable condition on a given day if you input some weather data. The weather data is taken from the Cairngorm summit weather station (https://cairngormweather.eps.hw.ac.uk/) and the climbing data from UKClimbing.com (https://www.ukclimbing.com/logbook/crags/cairn_gorm_-_cairn_lochan-74/savage_slit_winter-2335). I selected the route as it is one of the most popular and often in condition winter routes in the UK, and is located close to a weather station. 

This was completed at the start of a data analytics module I have taken, as a side project to see if I could apply what I already knew about machine learning. As such I would do things differently now having completed the module. I ran into several problems on this project, mostly surrounding the dataset. As the day went on I realised that missing and clearly incorrect values were common (months with average wind of 0 mph etc). In the end to complete the project by the end of the day I decided to just use temperature. The model used is very basic but I did learn a lot about sourcing and preparing data from real-life sources.

Text files containing weather data and a text file containing the climb data are included. The predictor contains functions to read the various formats of text file (two formats) and the logbook file into pandas dataframes, combine them into a dataframe with a binary encoded to indicate if the route was climbed, and then train a classifier. You can then input some weather data (just temp..) and see what it's prediction is.   
